<<<<<<< Updated upstream
---
layout: default
type: concepts
navgroup: docs
shortname: Characterization
title: Characterization of Antha Elements
docs:
  published: 2014-11-14
  antha_version: 0.0.1
  description: How characterization enables the identification of what contexts an Element is useful in.
---

{% include toc.html %}


need text here
=======
#Characterization

Good practice in computer science, biological science research and engineering requires validation that is executed meets pre-defined approval criteria. Antha will aim to have this capacity built-in. 
In computer science validation is data based and can thus be applied robustly quickly and scalably but when physical samples are generated in biological experiments the validation overhead is significantly higher. 
The pharmaceutical sector is the second most regulated industry on earth (can you guess the [first](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=76OyiN_aYZ8)?). Quality control and validation play a central role in ensuring that our medicines are safe, reliable and effective. The labour and documentation overhead for this is significant but as we move more to automated workflows much of this can potentially be autogenerated. Antha will aim to support best practice validation procedures so the rigour required for our drug manufacture can be applied to grass-routes science, but without the overhead. This will be built-in to elements and will mostly happen but behind the scenes. Allowing the user to focus on what they want to do and Antha’s scheduler will work out how to execute the experiment with the required statistical robustness and rugeddness which would be expected of the Pharma industry. Antha’s logger will then capture all of the silent variables which may affect the process and which might typically not be recorded by an average scientist. This will allow traceability of key differences which may explain why results between replicates of the same protocol may differ.
In recent years, Validation in Pharma has moved from a model of “find a way that works and stick precisely to that exact process” (quality by QC) to a model of “understand what aspects of your process does and what does not affect the quality of your product”. The latter is termed quality by design. 


##Quality by design

###Definition 

“QbD became the answer to assisting both the industry and FDA to move toward a more scientific, risk-based, holistic and proactive approach to pharmaceutical development. The concept promotes industry's understanding of the product and manufacturing process starting with product development, basically building quality in, not testing it. Under the concept of QbD, when designing and developing a product, a company needs to define desired product performance and identify CQAs. On the basis of this information, the company then designs the product formulation and process to meet those product attributes. This leads to understanding the impact of raw material attributes and process parameters on the CQAs and identification and control of sources of variability. As a result of all this knowledge, a company can continually monitor and update its manufacturing process to assure consistent product quality. This systematic approach to product development and manufacturing varies a great deal from the traditional approach, which was extremely empirical.” ([Quality by design for biopharmaceuticals](http://www.nature.com/nbt/journal/v27/n1/full/nbt0109-26.html), Anurag S Rathore & Helen Winkle)

###QbD implementaion
1. FMEA  → 2. DOE → 3. Design space definition.

1.	“Failure mode and effects analysis (FMEA) is commonly used to assess the potential degree of risk for every operating parameter in a systematic manner and to prioritize the activities, such as experiments, necessary to understand the impact of these parameters on overall process performance” ([Quality by design for biopharmaceuticals](http://www.nature.com/nbt/journal/v27/n1/full/nbt0109-26.html), Anurag S Rathore & Helen Winkle)
2.	Design of experiments (DOE) is then used to experimentally identify which of those parameters are critical quality attributes (CQAs), how they interact with each other and to build empirical and statistical models of how these key parameters interact to affect product quality. Critically, this process also identifies the parameters which are not important in affecting product quality. 
3.	From the understanding gained through DOE, a Design space can be defined in which robust performance can be ensured.
If this approach were applied routinely to characterizing genetic parts in synthetic biology then parts could be chosen based on windows of overlapping design space and performing experiments and building genetic devices would certainly be more likely to be robust, rugged and reproducible.

##How Antha will do this
This process sounds highly specialized and a lot of upfront work, and it is. But don’t worry because Antha is designed to support the parts characterisation automatically. This (insert techy stuff) explains how


>>>>>>> Stashed changes
